wiki/1

§ Centralized Unique ID

⸺ by Charles Iliya Krempeaux

⸺ up [[uuid/guide]]

⸺ previous [[uuid/guide/unique-id]]

⸺ next [[uuid/guide/centralized-unique-id]]

There are two main strategies for creating a **unique identifier** (**unique ID**):

• distributed, and
• centralized.

There are also some strategies that are //some form of// hybrid between the two.

Some examples of **unique-ID**s created using a **centralized** registry are:

• IETF RFC numbers,
• URL shortener **ID**s (under a specific Internet domain name),
• the Internet domain name system (if you include time),
• phone numbers (if you include time).

They can sometimes work.

It is possible for them to be more space-efficient (if their designers choose to design them to be space-efficient).

But they also have major problems if you are not in total control over the registry.
For example — your **unique ID** can be taken from you, or censored, etc.

(This has happened with **Internet domain names** a number of times!)

And in many contexts this //major problem// with **centralized** **unique ID**s makes them completely unacceptable to be used.

§§ UUID

**UUID**s, in general, are //NOT// centralized.

**UUID**s, in general, are either //distributed//, or a //hybrid//.

One of the design goals of **UUID** was for them to be able to be created in a //distributed// manner.

And with **UUID**s of type **version**=``4`` and **variant**=``10`` it is possible to create **UUID**s in a completely **distributed** manner.
